the importance of differentation in B2B
marketing welcome back to a fresh
episode of business growth show I'm your
host Sam Dunning and if you want to grab
my weekday B2B marketing and SEO tips
emails free playbooks podcasts or if you
want to apply to work with us head over
to
sd.org so joining me today I've got pep
the pep is the CEO over at winter he's
chairman at cxl and spearo we're going
to be diving into why your B2B company
needs to stand out in today's market the
importance of focus when it comes to
Market where many B2B tech service
companies for short and doing a bit of a
step by step when it comes to
differentiation the importance of it and
how you can actually put that into play
so with that welcome to the show pep how
are we sir
we are kicking ass thank you for having
me no worries man looking forward to the
convey so as we always do let's let's
get straight into it we're we're in 2024
right now so what is the why is it so
important to to stand out as a as a B2B
teackle service organization pep can't
we just I don't know join a category
that's already saturated be it CRM be at
calendar booking tools fire up a new
company stick some ad ad spend behind it
and we we should be good as gold
right I wish I wish yeah um so in my
company winter we we we you know
companies use us among other things to
run message tests and what we see in the
data often
is if people come across a tool let's
say it's a SAS might be an agency
whatever they always compare it to the
category leader let's say you're a a
meeting booking Tool uh and they're like
how is this any different from chili
Piper or if you're a CRM is like well
how is this different from uh hopspot
because if if you're not clearly
different or better or cheaper they're
going to go with the status quo because
they have the most mind share trust you
know they're probably not going to go
out of business probably integrate with
everything you ever need so hopspot is a
safe bet so if you're a CRM and there
are 500 crms according to G2 if you're
you know recent entrance to the category
you know tool number
497 just you have just no hope of ever
succeeding if you are trying to be just
like
hopspot is that what it is is it because
us as humans are risk of us so if we see
uh like you said I don't know calendar
booking let's take chili bber calendar
Etc HubSpot is it because we're so so
familiar with those companies we think
wow they're safe they're going to do a
good job for us the tools probably going
to work perfectly even though we might
not have invested in in the offer before
might not have even have prior
experience of using them we're just
thinking if I go for another option I've
perhaps never heard of I've just come
across now maybe in some LinkedIn
content or an ad or whatever how have I
got sered their content not sure if I
trust these folks
yet yeah I mean there are three things
so number one is that if you are just
like everybody else the odds are very
good that they will never find out that
you exist to begin with because number
one thing that one needs to optimize for
in marketing is mental availability
which is you know being thought of by
category buyers in buying situations I
need a CRM who are the top three top
five that come to mind like who's in my
short list to even look into so so
that's number one so if you're a
newcomer in a massive category and I've
never heard of you you are not not in my
consideration set I'm not even going to
consider you so that's 99% of that if I
do see your ad or somehow become aware
that you exist of course a company I've
never heard
of I'm going to be skeptical and just
not me there just humans you know
skeptical how old is this company also
like if I put all my data in here and a
year later you go out of business it's a
damn hassle to transfer all my data over
like you know so a new startup has a lot
L of friction like that where big
Enterprises will never go with a Oney
old startup because you know you might
fold in the next six months so there is
the the the safety aspect and then if
I'm gonna venture out and take you know
maybe take take a chance on this on this
new company well there needs to be a
compelling reason and if it's just like
hopspot uh and a one year old company
can never be just like hop spot because
like you like there's so much to build
like like I mean there needs to be an
obvious advantage and hopefully
something other than
price to make that leap so usually what
you need to do is you need to not go
after the whole Market everybody who
needs a CRM you need to pick a very
specific slice of the market who have a
very particular set of needs that
hopspot or any other big company is not
quite you know satisfying yet got
it so when we say and yeah appreciate
the breakdown in terms of like you said
mental
availability the risk side of things
because if it is a brand new company
that's perhaps been trading six months
12 months 18 months like you said we're
GNA think what's to say they don't crash
and burn run out of cash don't sell
enough in the next 18 months or so and
then like you say um compelling reason
which is something you talk about quite
a lot on the show in terms of kind of
the The Tipping Point or the motivation
to invest in an offer so when we say
standing
out what does that actually mean does
that mean that are branding is just
massively different to if we carry on
the calendar booking tool set of things
that we just look completely different
there I mean our message is different is
our copy different is the way we go to
market different like what does that
actually mean in actionable terms right
well it could be any of those things
that you just said it could be any of
those things so what is also Al true in
any saturated
category is that true differentiation is
actually very hard and we can just take
the page out of uh b2c consumer markets
you know think t-shirts chocolats uh
microphones uh carpets like is there a
brand that is better than other brands
no like they're all the same right so
there's no difference in terms of
product between different brands Nike
idas it's all all the same stuff yet
some companies are winning and some
companies are not winning so what's the
difference there and it's is all about
mental availability being top of mind um
uh and how do you achieve that of course
is is then uh being distinct you know uh
if we think Nike Swoosh you think Adidas
to three
stripes uh and you know Converse you
know has a particular a look so there's
a there's a distinct branding let's say
there's a distinct brand asset uh that
somehow it looks different from the
others and then the rest of it is being
everywhere with marketing now of course
you can never outspend Nike in terms of
advertising and all that stuff and the
Brand Power they already have so all
odds are stacked against you but
essentially um people
who uh study marketing as a science you
know like Byron sharp and that school of
guys um basically excess share of voice
is a guaranteed way to grow and what
what excess uh share of voice means that
you spend more on
Advertising uh then your market share is
comparatively um as when compared to
other companies of similar size so let's
say I have 1% of the market let's say
and my competitor has 1.5% of the market
now if I I
outspend them 3x and reach the consumer
three times more I will outgrow them
over time and this case study after case
study how this has happened like Leal
Supermarket is a prime example of that
and so on so in B2B we don't quite think
that way but you know if you cannot
differentiate with product which is very
hard it's distinct brand assets and
loads of advertising money right you
need to outspend your nearest
competitors so that's one thing uh the
easier way of course is if you have true
product
differentiation and and easier it's very
hard to get to True product
differentiation it's very hard but if
you have it it's much easier to Market
your
business uh and when I say it's easier
it's because it's easier to talk about
your business and it's easier to
remember your business uh you will be
noticed more and uh case in point is
let's say my company winter there is no
other company in the world that does
what we do completely unique it has of
course its own set of challenges because
we don't fit into any particular
category there's no budget line item for
buying winter which you know creates its
own unique problems
however we get a [__] T of word of mouth
and we get 100% of the the word of mouth
for B2B message testing we get 100% Word
of Mouth uh for you know like um B2B uh
Target customer survey if anybody wants
to do that because there's literally
nowhere nowhere else to go to so just
being
unique will set all these other things
in motion whereas if you're CRM just
like everybody else you will get zero
Word of Mouth that was a slick winter
plug by the way um so with that say
without
coming do we have to become a new
category to actually go down the second
route so you said route one was
basically you you have to have
distinctive brand assets but you're
essentially outspending the existing
leaders in the market not leaders you
need to outspend your nearest
competitors and you grow your market
share little by little until you're big
enough to take on the Giants it will
take decades so you work step by step
yeah but yeah it requires money for sure
a lot cash M or like you mentioned we go
down the differentiate route but do we
need to then
become a new category like you said with
for example with with winter message
testing websites which is not something
that exists before you created that
category do we have to do that ourselves
or our own offer or is there another
route another way we can go into it
don't have to I mean it you know it has
its own set of challenges because sure
also like if you're creating a category
you're evangelizing a problem and a lot
of company your Target customers might
not know they have this problem so you
need to sell the idea that they have
this problem and you need to make them
look at the problem with new eyes so
they think that you're the solution to
the problem they thought it's a but it's
actually B and that's very hard changing
people's point of view changing their
mind is very hard takes a lot of time
and
so uh and a lot of companies fail at
that so so and of course the basics is
that you need to actually solve a real
problem you cannot create a A Madea
problem that doesn't exist um and when
it comes to category
creation there's a it's not like a uh
creating a category or not there's a
Continuum of what what that means so on
one end is it's a form of radical
differentiation meaning that you are
nothing like anything else out there
uh so this is like the casee of winter
we are a radically different
Tool uh and so category creation is a
form of
differentiation the other way is you're
creating a new category as in an
ecosystem of tools agency partners you
know whatever whatever so this is like
kind of like what gain site did with
customer success they they uh they
fostered a job title called I'm a
customer success person there's an whole
identity a movement there are agencies
doing that a whole different amount of
tools a conference you know like there's
they're building an ecosystem of
category and now it's a real thing
customer success it wasn't before so
that the gainsight way requires way more
money way more money you know like and
if you if you if you talk to companies
that have done that so I I spoke to um
the CEO founder of drift and he told me
like if he had known in advance how hard
it's going to be like their category of
conversational marketing uh in in
hindsight is like no it's a bad idea
don't do it right um and so so but the
the the idea of form of radical
differenti I think is a much easier path
if you can find a way to be different uh
which which as I said is hard um what is
the middle way you ask the middle way is
that you find a slice of the
market that is either ignored by uh the
bigger players or that have very
particular um needs that are not quite
satisfied and then you say hey let's say
it's real estate agent who also need a
CRM now we are building a CRM for real
estate agents who have very particular
needs and now I'm building a product
that is perfect for them I'm sure like
real estate agent CRM is actually a
massive subcategory so is a bad example
but you know you get you you get my
point yeah yeah yes we're talking about
taking a very specific segment of the
target market and going directly after
them rather than trying to go for almost
anyone who could use and so so there are
like two two examples here I can give so
this is uh the Korean car makers uh Kia
and Hyundai in the
1990s they created uh a category of sub
compact cars like these little little
edbd cars and um they started uh making
very cheap
cars and nibbling away at the market
share of Toyota and Honda and and so on
so forth while pricing themselves
cheaper than Honda Civic and so on so
basically taking away Hondas and and and
Toyota's least profitable customer so
they didn't fight them over time time uh
Hyundai and Kia became bigger and richer
and now of course they make every kind
of car imaginable have considerable
market share uh like Kia as tally SUV
was at some point uh the bestselling SUV
in the whole America so like basically
you you start in a very specific segment
where they won't F you maybe a least
profitable segment of your target um of
your competitor and then as you gain a
foothold there you expand of it slowly
and slowly it's the same thing how I so
my company winter is three years
old my vision was always up here what
we're going to become a a platform you
cannot a build a platform overnight it
takes many years of building like
engineering work and also a platform is
a is a vague and rather poor value prop
you know like Salesforce is a platform
today but how they started a cloud CRM
same idea I saw that if we come out as a
point solution for message testing in
B2B nobody else was doing it we were the
only one and uh and we could gain a tow
hold in the market position ourselves as
we are Point solution tool for this
particular problem and and now we're
expending out of it now we're becoming
more things than that not quite yet we
do everything that my that my vision has
you know but uh slowly and slowly we are
taking a bigger slice of the market
record
interesting yeah and and that makes
sense right so we're talking about kind
of really niching down in the in the car
example that you gave basically get
picking a super small Market that your
competitors right now might not give a
[__] about so you can almost pick up
pick up their scraps slowly nibble away
start acquiring
customers driving some revenue and and
gramping it up of a time exactly right
because one until you're like under 10
million in Revenue the big fish you know
the Hop spots of the world they won't
even know you exist they don't care they
won't fight you because if they were if
you were to take them uh on head on they
would crash you because they have so
much more money and brand power and
everything so you kind of want to fly
under the radar you know case in point
in in the in the mobile phone smartphone
Wars LG went for the exact same customer
as Samsung you know Android phones uh
overlapped exactly and Samsung was like
Over My Dead Body [__] and they crushed
them now LG is mainly like a
subcontractor for making Parts they got
slaughtered by
Samsung yeah nice example so what might
be quite interesting to make this
tangible for our audience is feel free
to either give an example of a company a
tech company you're aware or maybe your
own business winter because that might
more fun of how you went about doing
that in the sense that although I
suppose yours were a new category so
maybe we could talk about one that's in
an existing category that stood out as
well um but I'd like to know the thought
process of where you came to think right
this is this is a problem that need
needs to be fixed and this is how I'm
actually gonna take it to Market um to
give our audience a bit of an idea how
how you can put this into play of coming
across all right there's a problem this
is the the target Market I'm going after
this is how I'm going to bring it into
frish yeah I mean that's that's you know
traditional entrepreneurship business
building stuff where you stumble upon an
unsolved problem that either you
experience yourself so in my case my
other uh business cxl which is like an
e-learning business as I was writing
copy for one of the sales
Pages um I was wondering if my ideal
customer is reading this sales pitch
that I just put put together are like oh
my God this is so great take my money or
are like this is so boring like next
like or what parts were interesting what
parts were boring I had no idea um and
so I decided to look for a tool that
could tell me only thing I found was
people with the exact same problem so I
I basically stumbled upon an unsolved
Problem by solving my own problem it's
very classic right in in in
entrepreneurship the other way is that
you have worked worked in an industry
for a long ass time you're a veteran
youve worked in insurance for 20 years
you know exactly how the industry works
and you know the inefficiencies that are
going on like companies are losing a lot
of money based on this maybe there's
fraud or whatever and then you come up
with an idea of how to solve it with
through technology or whatever it is so
that's that's another very Classic route
that uh you see how maybe insurance
companies are slapping tools together to
you know have a workaround for something
and you can build a dedicated tool for
it yeah um now is there like a one two
three formula that everybody can
replicate here I mean I think it's very
hard also a thousand books have been
written about that like how to find a
problem start your own
business um so if you don't have a
problem that you have that's unsolved if
you don't have any intimate industry no
knowledge uh where you know that
something is could be done better then I
mean it's hard it's it's hard I'll give
you that so then your best bet is like
have really
distinct uh branding in terms of a voice
the way you look uh the way you present
and when it comes to distinct brand
assets there are like good ones and
there are bad ones so for instance
colors and fonts is a terrible way to be
distinct because every single company in
the world can choose the same colors and
funds as you you know and they do by the
millions so when I launched Winter by
the way I chose the yellow color because
I couldn't find you know almost any B2B
SAS company that was yellow yellow and
black core combo uh so I thought oh
that's
different fast forward three years so T
many tens of prominent SAS companies who
have who are yellow and black just like
us it's it's just it's it's a very poor
defensibility there uh you know so so it
cannot be that it it needs to be more
radical than this uh in the book
um uh Jenny Roman Yuk's book about
distinct brand assets I mean she says
things like mascots which in BWB I
haven't really seen anybody pull off
successfully but you know like the gecko
and the Geico ads and and U and you know
like I'm trying to think of one now
actually in btb or Michelin uh the tire
dude um um they have like so so
basically nobody else is going to have
the same tire guy right um so that's a
very distinct brand asset uh in B2B I
know like Mutiny has tried to do their
and there's a brand called Commodore
right as well with a dinosaur I think
they're called something like that
there's a couple that are trying to
break through with with some some mascs
trying yeah so I think it's it's a
worthwhile effort or ah refs the SEO
tool they they made their own fonts that
nobody could like they basically created
their own font from scratch to have a
distinct look uh you know that's a way
um yeah um and then of course be [__]
everywhere where your where your
customers hang out and the smaller the
slice of the market that you're trying
to conquer the better your chances of
seemingly appearing everywhere because
you cannot afford to do Mass marketing
Mass advertising but if your target
segment is 200
companies you know in B2B you can do
that you can basically you know you go
the ABM route
I the the logic here is I cannot
spend on LinkedIn ad or whatever um it's
it's very expensive but if I know
exactly these 200 companies should be
become my customers why would you do
anything else other than than go after
these 200
companies uh and then you identify all
the people who work there you invite
them to lunch you invite them to you
create a conference you can be
everywhere for these 200 companies and
look like a giant Corporation that's
possible and then once you dominate
these
200 expand out any examples of B2B taco
service companies that have done
that Ah that's hard hard for me to know
so um so one one that comes to uh mind
is
the customer support for uh e-commerce
companies gorgeous so when gorgeous
launched uh zenes uh which is like the
category leader of support help desk
software yeah were already ginormous
maybe I don't know if the ipoed yet but
uh but they were enormous already so
gorgeous came and
picked uh that we're going to be help
desk for e-commerce specifically one
slice of the
market and and also what they did was
they created basically an ABM a Target
list like we need to sell to these
accounts in particular and then they
went very focused after a particular set
of accounts uh you can look up um their
Founders and marketing leaders like
talks about that stuff uh this is years
old now because now gorgeous is the the
category king of that subcategory right
uh similar is what clavia did email
marketing for e-commerce clavia of
course now worth 10 billion dollars or
some [__] um same idea like they they
started in a subcategory because male
chimp was already the category King
right and is this like a
foolproof idea and like if we take a
step back so for example I don't know
we've got some kind of tool so maybe
just because it's in my mind now
calendar software but we're going for
some really Niche segment so I don't
know maybe we're doing it not for the
usual like marketers or sales
professionals maybe we're doing it for I
don't know construction professionals
let's say um so we go all right b i I've
got a bit of experience in the
construction sector I don't think this
is a saturated Market but how do we I
guess validate it in the sense that
because we can we can say look there's
only 500 I don't know if there is but
there's 500 targets accounts we've
worked out that we're going after in the
construction sector for calendar
scheduling software how do we know that
that's going to be a big hit or or do we
just have to go guns blazing you won't
know in advance and nothing is ever
guaranteed there's always risk involved
only thing you can do is you can lower
uncertainty and improve your odds and
the way you do this you decide on a on a
market segment to go after maybe
construction and construction can be
massive because look at procore um
billion dollars in Revenue construction
software so there's money to be made
there for sure uh so if the macro
picture looks good that there's you know
there's path a lot of money there and
let's say the calendar nobody's built
the calendar software for the
construction industry I mean it starts
with regular um customer development
work or Target customer research so you
need to interview and Survey Target
customers that you're going to build to
for and Market to to know about their
pain points regarding calendaring
scheduling meetings uh like maybe
they're meeting up with customers like
what do they usually want to know and
and they have like people driving around
their trucks in the field and how does
that work and like how does it maybe
integrate with
whatever erps they are using behind the
scenes and so you're Gathering Intel
about uh how they're doing it right now
and what about it is is terrible so in
jobs to be done basically um there are
two things that you want to find out
when when serving interviewing an
audience you want to
find an important problem so on a scale
of 1 to 10 how important is it to you to
do X you know schedule appointments and
what you know for
instance uh and then the second question
is how satisfied are you with your
current ways or current options to do so
and what you want to find is high
importance it's like eights nines and
tens and low satisfactions it's like
below six on on a scale of because if if
if if you find a high problem but
they're perfectly happy the way they're
doing it you you can't sell them because
they don't have a known perceived
problem because that's very and they're
not motivated enough to do it no exactly
like if I don't have a problem it's
going to be going to be extremely
difficult um you know uh snowflake there
uh C the chief Revenue officer just
recently uh posted on LinkedIn where if
you need to educate the customer about
the problem the sales cycle is going to
be 20,000
months if they know they have a problem
you can sell them and get money now
versus like if they don't have a problem
they're aware of it's it's a hard life
so essentially what we're saying is
interview Target potential customers
that you think would be the ones that
you'd serve with this offer and then
find out what they're doing to do it now
what what the terrible problem is with
how they're doing it if they're actually
is one and if they say that on a scale
of 1 to 10 like six plus on on annoyance
level and then likewise how how bothered
they are about actually resolving it at
six plus sing into so these are either
qualitative interviews and interviews
are slow and hard or you can do surveys
uh surveys are scale much better much
much cheaper easier to do less um
information quality is lower so you need
to do a bigger sample so with interviews
you know uh want to say 12 13 interviews
is very good already uh with with a with
a Target customer Serv survey you know
want to go for maybe 30
people um and then of course the
research the your first round of
research should be exploratory you don't
really know what you're going to find
out right you're just probing Gathering
Intel and then you learn things you have
new insights and you follow it up with a
laser targeted Ser ah okay we found this
thing and they do it like this let's
learn more about this problem because
you cannot solve a problem that you do
not understand it's very important that
you precise understand the problem and I
guess only then you can yeah I guess the
good thing about doing this as well is
even if your original concept flops I
you think you're going to build this
offer for construction people and you
think it's going to be an amazing
scheduling tool for them and they
actually it turns out it's not a massive
problem because you could always ask
well what is frustrating you at the
moment around kind of your Tech setup or
that kind of thing and you could
literally get hands- on feedback and if
if you're getting like say you in 12 13
people and they all actually say a
similar thing is really frustrating you
could say these guys all have this issue
we've actually got the tech to build
this issue and it turns out it's
actually I don't know a segment of their
CRM or something to do with their emails
or something else like I've got insights
I didn't expect but I can build
something else totally it's a very
common startup story is like you start
looking into a problem you discover a
much bigger problem it's very common
also you let's say you interview all
these people you you you paint a your
picture in your of like what's the
problem and then you have an idea of how
to go about solving it nothing is
guaranteed right so all this work that
you do up front just lowers uncertainty
and improves the odds of success so when
I went to Market with winter three years
ago launched
MVP uh and I had done probably like 40
interviews and we had people using our
uh uh like a you know first mockup like
a private Alpha version and lots of user
feedback was in there so I was very
confident in our first set of hypothesis
we
launched and within three months I
learned that we were wrong about most
things we were wrong about who the buyer
is and who cares about it uh and
um uh and and price points and also the
the competitive market we were just
wrong about a bunch of things however by
taking a product to Market
this will speed up your feedback loops
like nothing else and so what happened
happened in our case we had various
people uh come knock on our door and
when I say people these were B2B
companies because when we first launched
we were winter was for four consumer
companies like e-commerce companies
selling to e-commerce uh we were selling
to copywriters we were selling to
e-commerce product
marketers and then we learned that
copywriters in general have zero
Authority and no money at all and
they're poor and without power as a
terrible audience to sell anything to
and and two uh product marketers at
e-commerce companies when they write
Let's uh product copy for an you know
for a product in an e-commerce store
once the copy has been written oh these
are like jeans and you know this color
and this long and you wear them on
Sundays they never change it again and
I'm generalizing obviously but your
average e-commerce company once the copy
of a product is written they never
change it they go off to write the next
product copy and the next one uh and
changing the way they do things is you
know impossible uh you path however we
had B2B companies saying hey uh like we
sell to product uh managers do you have
product managers and you know we said no
I mean but you want mom's ages between
20 and
25 uh and so after hearing a lot of like
this B2B companies game asking we had to
tell them no we were like wait a minute
like these B2B
companies let's let's let's look into
this and can we run a small pilot try to
service them and so so we did and then
the pilots were successful and five
months after we um we came to Market we
pivoted away from our initial ICP to to
B2B and then the company growth
trajectory like completely changed yeah
yeah that's a really good example
and what did that actually look like
when you went when you took winter to
Market was it just a case of like you
said then the copywriters were just
saying well this is too expensive were
they saying that kind of stuff and with
the e-commerce managers saying well
we're only going to use you once um and
that kind of thing and how how what what
was like the pivot point where you said
oh this isn't the right sector we need
to go so I mean we launched I think
first month we did like 20K of Revenue
cuz like we had a big launch campaign
and we product account number one and
all that stuff and then the next month
we made less money and then less money
and then less money and then less money
yeah uh the repeat usage was not there
customer satisfaction was also kind of
like me that's nice you know it wasn't
anything particularly great um and and
and mostly all the people we were
pitching they they didn't want to buy it
right they uh so especially the
copywriters who we were really thinking
is going to be loving it because they
there there hadn't been anything like
this copywriters were even defensive
like for since the beginning of mankind
the copywriters got away for free they
wrote a piece of copy and if you didn't
like it that's just your opinion man and
now we gave with data of how the target
market perceives what you have written
yeah and they were getting slaughtered
um and so they hated us
um and yeah and so and these B2B
companies when we ran the pilot they
were were extremely thrilled without us
asking they went on Twitter and Linkedin
and posting like glowing reviews oh my
God we use this new tool called winter
and blah blah blah blah blah and we were
like oh look at this like these guys get
it they're willing to pay for it and
they love it they're like evangelizing
it you know so so if you read April
dunford's book um obviously awesome for
positioning is like what you want to
find is like the um uh she called it the
best fit customers best fit customers
are they get it they don't negotiate on
the price and they they um they you know
evangelize
it I've learned that the hard way
selling websites and SEO to companies
where you're constantly negotiating they
don't see the value they don't
understand it they don't believe in it
once I made the transition and thought
well I'm going to move to this market to
in my case perhaps establish
B2B um I don't know manufacturing
companies some tech companies that
already have a marketing leader in place
that knows the value of SEO so I'm
instead of trying to go to a CEO that's
not familiar with SEO probably has no
intentions to do any kind of inbound
marketing to go to a decision maker that
is very familiar with it appreciates the
value of it and is ready to invest in it
has the problem we solve just flips the
game absolutely I mean I have an agency
too spear when we started in 2011 like
most agencies you start serving small
businesses uh and you're cheaper than
the big guys because you know you have
no name and no
reputation and it was the same thing
like smell selling to small businesses
where the buyer is the owner of the
company and then HS her
money oh my God like they're so stingy
and like and maybe you improve their
sales by 10% but it's only a you know
200,000 a year business so 10% is
[__] nothing uh whereas you work with
a company that does 100 million a year
you improve their sales by 10% we're
talking lots of Lamborghinis here so
they're extremely ecstatic about a 10%
Improvement right uh and so over time we
went way up market and we started
charging 400 bucks a month retainer with
our agency now it's 20,000 a month and I
mean the service what we offer also has
evolved obviously but it's it's a lot of
it is just selling to bigger business
yeah yeah I've been I've been in the
exact same boat the exact same boat so
understand that um cool man I want to
just one thing just taking a couple
steps back so we've covered some good
stuff we've talked about kind of finding
a slice of the market that's ignored by
your the big players or your Co closest
competitor and we talked about going
kind of super small super Niche even if
that's only 200 organizations and then
finding out perhaps where those
prospects hang out and how you can then
essentially be everywhere because that
Target Market is small it means you
don't need to invest a ton of cash any
ways that you've done or that you've
seen done I know you mentioned product
hunt just now um of kind of if we are
going after a smaller Market of how you
can quite easily get in front of them
perhaps with not a ton of cash maybe
more resource yeah uh a very smart play
here is a Content play you gocreate
content with them
if it's 200 companies you launch a
podcast you don't give a [__] about
whether anybody even listens to a single
episode doesn't matter at all you get
people from all of these 200 people uh
companies as guests to talk about
whatever the thing is uh and and the
podcast is a way for you to a you get to
know the person a little bit and you get
on the radar that you exist for a for a
new company the fact the target market
knows that you exist is huge it's like
80% of the results is just that and it
doesn't need to be podcast you can do
virtual events where you have 20 of them
at once they're delivering sessions you
don't care if anybody attends it's a
bonus mainly you're there uh because
like hey buy my product versus hey I
want to feature you in my conference
there a very different value
propositions right so you start with
something uh you know call it
co-creating content in whatever forms uh
that's that's the easiest way to get on
the radar and start relationship
building that's a great example yeah
yeah I've actually done that with this
podcast over over time we actually kind
of picked out marketing leaders it
wasn't so much that we just wanted to
get them on and Pitch them it was more
like I I quite often say to guests up
front like if you're going to come on
the show I'm going to challenge you on
marketing I'm not just going to take
your answer as gospel if I if I think
something surface level I'm going to dig
into it so I advise you listen to some
past episodes before you come on but
like like you said that's a really good
play especially if you got a small
target market because like you mentioned
most people are humbled if you ask them
to come on a video show or a podcast
show or an episode or a webinar it's 99%
of the time people jump at the chance to
be interviewed and share how great they
are well really depends on the target
market I've uh in my experiments also
I've had a lot of um people who were um
afraid they just didn't want well that's
a good point actually I suppose I'm
talking about mtek but yeah if I flip
that to another industry that's actually
a really good point so you know my the
two sources of friction that I've
experienced is like one is like well I
have nothing to say well I'm poor little
me you know um and and and second is
like I cannot share anything about my
company I need to like it's it's giant
corporation like I mean I don't know if
they legal would approve and you know
it's too complicated I'd rather not come
um so which in s&b's case wouldn't be an
issue they don't have legals and the
chain of command is is not you know 10
levels of
hierarchy that's yeah that's a great
point I'm glad you brought that yeah
especially some Industries I'm thinking
of it from a kind of marketing Tech lens
but I suppose some industries that
perhaps aren't as frequent on podcast as
well you might get that push back so it
might be more of a nurturing thing and
holding them by hand there are always
ways there are always ways so for
instance I know in cyber cyber security
which is a huge huge
market and the buyer there is the chief
security officer and every information
security office everybody wants to sell
them you throw you know events and and
you want them to attend they will not
attend you know like and they're very
marketing adverse they're like redditors
you know they're like
nerds uh they hate Marketing in sales of
course they do have legit problems that
maybe you're saying solves for them but
like to get in front of them so so what
I know from like selling to cyber uh
Security leaders is that you do you do
like dinners but you you as a vendor
you're not the the host you find an
industry influencer that the chief
Security offers just love trust know and
that person is organizing the dinner
you're just footing the bill and also
attending that person's dinner so like
you go in a roundabout
way well I guess that yeah that that
makes it a lot more complex doesn't it
actually working out how these folks
like to I don't know whether socialize
is the right word but I guess get
trusted industry
information and where they'd be willing
to sit down absolutely and that that is
again communicating the importance of
Target customer research the question of
where you buy and how you buy so for
instance a couple of months ago I
surveyed maybe it was 100 B2B s CMOS cm
OS of like 500 plus companies like
basically you're looking to you know
change up your Tech stack you replace a
tool buy a new tool like what is your
starting point of uh where you're going
to look and you know what it was it was
I'm going to call up my friend CMO it
was very peer-to-peer they're not going
to G2 they're not Googling [__] yeah um
yeah they're asking their friends
essentially and so if you think about
that that's how they start okay well
what's my way in so strategies where to
play and how to win okay where to play I
need CMOS to refer me uh and it needs to
be a CMO that other CMOS look up to and
trust and like and know so maybe there's
an influencer marketing play here maybe
I can buy my way in there if I can
afford to or and if they're sellable and
everybody mostly is and yeah got
it oh starts with customer research
think that's right and not serving your
existing customers well that's half of
it the other side of the coin
is people who maybe don't even know you
exist but you want to sell too you want
to servey those people that's why I've
made a mistake as well because like you
say your existing customers are already
going to have biases as well because
they probably know I can trust you and
they they they're going to say what you
want them to hear all that kind of stuff
that's right exactly
right cool man well look appreciate the
conversation I think we've covered some
good ground on all things
differentiation we've taken a slightly
different angle to it than I I
anticipated originally but really
enjoyed the show and appreciate you
candidly sharing your insights on your
own company others and and what's worth
for clients and such it's been enjoyable
chat we have to get you on for round two
at some stage in the future if you're
game let's do it let's talk about
Dunning
emails oh dude tell tell tell the
audience because no one's ever said this
to me and I don't know if you the end
part of it was gold as well can you
remember what you said to me when I
reached out to pep
well yeah you reached out to me on
LinkedIn and uh I said something like
like why on Earth aren't you in the
Dunning emails
business yeah but I think you actually
said why aren't you in the done business
it's such a waste but the waste because
obviously a done is where you go for a
dump of [__] um and the waist like the
pun at the end of it I was literally in
stitches man I think it's one of those
ones where you had to be there but the
pun was on point so pep sua game is on
point with that said pep enjoyed the
chat thanks for sharing your knowledge
please do share how everyone tuning in
can learn more connect with you or do
some business with yourself or your
companies yeah basically give me a
follow on LinkedIn or Twitter X um
nobody else by my name uh and
then yeah that's a good starting
point top man what about your upcoming
conference this summer absolutely if you
are in B2B SAS and you're in
marketing uh we're throwing a two-day
event called Spring with a y in Austin
Texas April 9 and 10 is not keynote
after keynote in a hotel Ballroom it's
actually a brewery and it's two days of
hanging out with peers and would
organize Round Table discussions on hey
what's working for you right now and and
like how are you creating demand and
things like that um all while drinking
beer sounds perfect and peps already
agreed that I'm going to be speaking
ahead of Chris Walker so we've signed
the deal there and I can't wait to get
stuck in um cheers pep thanks once again
for coming on the show man enjoyed the
chat all righty take care man cheers
dude and as always if you enjoyed
today's episode of rating or review on
your podcast Channel goes a long way um
and if you want to grab the weekday
newsletter we send out check out more
podcasts or reply to work with us head
over to Sam dunn. org thanks once again
for tuning in catch you on the next one